What is Conway's Game of Life anyways? Why should we care as computer scientists? This was my most recent hurdle to get over throughout my tenure here at Lambda School. It's essentially a zero player game created by a mathematician named John Conway. If given an initial state, a two-dimensional cellular grid of finite automata changes over time in a series of generations. Individual cells (survive, die, or reproduce) based on how many adjacent neighbors it has. The Game of Life made it's first appearance in 1970 and had some very simple rules. In the interest of saving you reading time; If you're interested in the rules they will be at the link below the article. This game led to the creation of a new field of mathematics called cellular automata. Even today it continues to be a famous instructive program for computer science students. I spent loads of time researching and following Polya's four steps. Once I had a clear understanding I started implementing the logic required to create the cells' movements. It was very interesting working with react hooks and trying to get everything to render and spring into action as the rules required. Eventually, I was able to make a custom hook that took care of running my function and keeping the state in sync and displaying properly. By further digging into it and giving it some presets and being able to tweak the speed; I found it increasingly fun to play around with. But why was this so important for computer science? My opinion would be for some common reasons that you often have to deal with while working as a developer. As an example; performance. Performance is so critical to building good software. A user will leave in a heartbeat with slow load times or something taking longer than a blink of an eye to complete. We deal with it every day and constantly strive to improve our performance for our applications. Another reason would be problem-solving skills. Another commonality that we deal with all the time. I can't count the number of times I've been given a task I knew almost nothing about and been expected to have solutions within a few hours, days, or a quick upcoming deadline. Being able to think critically and come up with working solutions is an under-appreciated skill that is extremely hard to find in people. I still question my abilities from time to time. We don't all have good days every day. Being able to put those bad days behind you and trudge forward with a well thought out plan and start tweaking it and thinking about it and improving it; which sounds easy but in practice is very complicated. I think this has been a great example of precisely that. I don't particularly care for video games. This isn't something I would have chosen to make. But being able to take that with very little information and think through it to get to a working solution was a great example of thinking critically and overcoming obstacles. I look forward to continuing my journey of knowledge and growth and will look back on this one in times of frustration in the future.

[Rules and Game Here...](https://d3c7x8cskqsuf0.cloudfront.net/)
